As vaccines are rolling out in Canada, there are a two things I'd like to rant about. 

1. What happened to the 400% reservation of vaccines for Canada? It was all over the news in late 2020 and early 2021 that the government of Canada have secured 4x the vaccines needed for its populations. Where are the vaccines? Why are there a shortage? How much taxpayer's money was paid to "reserve" vaccines that didn't show up on time? So what's most important is not how much doses per capita is reserved, but rather does a given country have vaccine production abilities. Since even if the vaccine makers try to deliver to Canada in the early days, the country that its located will prevent them from shipping it out before it meets local demands. I feel like Canada should really take this as a lesson, and start funds to enable vaccine production capabilities in Canada. The thing is Canada, is not lacking the money nor the technology, but rather it is more of a choice, where it was thought that we can depend on the US (which is partially true, but in times of crisis countries will always save themselves first). 
2. OK so we got the vaccines on hand, how do we distribute them effectively? It was not immediately obvious to me how to book vaccines without searching it on Google. You may say, how do you be more obvious without searching on Google? Well, the government could've sent eligible everyone a text, a robocall, a physical mail. The point is, for people that aren't surfing the internet constantly like you and I (perhaps the elderlies) it is actually quite difficult to know when they are eligible or what number/website can they call to book. Speaking of you and I, I'd say it is sometimes even hard for us to book the earliest available time slot. From personal experience, vaccination booking through the provincial system has a longer line than municipal, but the provincial system opened for booking before the municipal. So even if you booked early on provincial, you would still get it later than someone booking after you but on the municipal system. In fact, this is why [Vaccine Hunters](https://vaccinehunters.ca/) was created in the first place.  Me being in that Discord gets me near real time update/ping on when vaccines are available for me. Why does it take a group of volunteers to do the work that the government should've done in the first place.

I hope this vaccination effort can get majority of Canadians fully vaccinated before this September, because we all really need some sense of "normalcy".

*Disclaimer: I do realize that many other countries are in worse conditions than Canada so it may seem like I'm taking the public health system for granted. This is not true, I recognize that Canada's health care system is one of the best in the world, I'm just pointing out some of the potential things that could've done better.*