As I get ramped up at my new co-op, for the first time ever, I'd be designing/training/tuning machine learning models from scratch. Although I've dealt with machine learning models before, I've never really design a model from scratch. As I expect what most people who claim to "know" machine learning, they usually just take some existing model and adjust it to their needs. Like if I want to do image recognition, I'm not gonna train a whole network myself, since there are freely available state-of-the-art networks out there readily available. However, finding such models become increasingly difficult as the specificity of the objective gets narrower or more complex. Although I can't go into detail of what I'm specifically working on, I can say that I'm making ML models that assist in the risk management of cryptocurrencies. 

This is also my first time reading so many academic papers, I think I've read 15+ papers in the span of 3 days... Never felt so much like an academic 😅. But honestly it is dare I say... enjoyable? There's a technique to reading papers effectively (there's actually a paper on [How to Read a Paper](http://blizzard.cs.uwaterloo.ca/keshav/home/Papers/data/07/paper-reading.pdf), I highly recommend anyone who might read papers to read this). But basically since I'm not actually doing a PhD, I only do the first pass on most papers and the the second pass on papers I decide to take ideas from.

This honestly is a great opportunity for me, since I've always been fascinated by machine learning, but never had any pressure/urgency to seriously learn it. However, this time, I've got all the (compute, knowledge) resources I need to really sit down and develop models from scratch. It's only been one week on the team, I have already learned so much!

